  📍  Hi, my name is Solomon Olusegun and with my other teammates, Rachael David and Steven Chelleh Myers, we're together are part of the Donate Water team in this UN 2023 Datathon Challenge. We  want to say thank you for giving us this opportunity to be able to bring to fore our ideas,  our work and all the hard work that we've been putting together in order to ensure that we address certain targets.

That are being put forward by the .. UN  Datathon 2023.  We are DonateWater,  an initiative that came out of Crowd4SDG as a Winner, in order to address certain climate change impact issues. And also gender equality problems and also daily crisis that affects people or communities in the rural areas of Nigeria. 

I will start by talking about the journey of  Donate Water.  Donate Water basically is where we tend to think about how people are suffering from the lack of access and availability to natural resources. For example, water. We all know that water is a basic need of everyone, of every citizen. It shouldn't have to be a luxury.

It is a need, a necessity for everyone.  But however, We are faced with the fact that even today, towards the 2030 and 2050 UN SDG goals,  this accessibility to water and the effects of climate change impact on making  it difficult for people to have access to clean, safe and potable water is at the forefront of one of the key issues that are being tackled Globally. 

And here is the journey through Nigeria's water challenge as we focus specifically on Nigeria as a case study.  Have you ever encountered a drying well or faced water scarcity?  How might the issues of drying wells impact gender equality and access to education in communities? And what role do we think that technology and citizen science play in addressing this challenge? 

It is safe to say that Donate Water  is an NGO organization  and  a non profit initiative that is  meant to address employ .... adopts technology, citizen science,  and crowdsourcing methodology in order to arrive at practical solutions. In order to bring about data, reliable and dependable data that can be used to making informed decisions and strategic improvements globally. 

Water is a crisis  and a complex challenge. Even Nigeria is not left out. We have to understand its far reaching effects and be able to find solutions.  In a way that are practical and sustainable. And that is why Donate Water,  uh, is about collecting data. Data that can tell us the exact stories, the real stories, and the realities that are being faced every day. 

The SDG targets that are being addressed are SDG targets 5 and 6, while also impacting into 10, 3, and 13.  So we embarked on a data collection across Nigeria, and with the participation of vibrant and passionate community youths, All over Nigeria, we're able to collect results  through this research that shows and tells some of the realities on ground.

And one particular reality stood out in our research, and that is basically the fact that People actually use mostly hand dug wells, which, from what you can see here,  have issues with sanitation and have issues with, uh, cleanliness. We tend to think that people would have access to clean water sources that they can use for drinking and other uses.

But unfortunately, for the communities that are being... Uh, uh, collected data on what the, through the data collection of donate water  in 2023, we found out that this is not the case. People have access to unclean water sources, which they use for what, for drinking and other purposes.  And the challenge, basically, is, according to our data, many communities in Nigeria use stream rivers and wells as their basic sources of water for drinking and other uses. 

And however, there is a pending disaster, and that's the fact that these wells, they dry up when it's drying season, or when the season, when the seasonal changes. That is,  when there is climate change impact, people go back to having lack of water because this sources of water get dried up.  And the consequences of this issue is the fact that in the midst of all this, people are forced to go back  to use certain coping mechanisms.

And one major coping mechanism that are being used basically is the fact that people are forced to pay for what should be free. People are forced to part with money which could have been used for other purposes to get water for their daily use.  And so you have cases where there are so many water vendors dominating many of this, about 70 percent of this community, selling water, using water as a business for everyone in this community. 

Mapping water scarcity, the power of data.  And this is part of the solution that we think is crucial in order to address this SDGs and this climate change issues. And also the fact that  education of women and children who are saddled with the responsibility of getting water, of sourcing water for their households, bear the brunt of these problems. 

Women are saddled with responsibility, children miss out on education, and also economic opportunities of people are being affected.  And so the power of data cannot be, uh, 

This is where we unveil the transformative power of data in battling water scarcity.  When we handle this data, we will unveil, or we have been able to also unveil, a clearer image of Nigeria's water crisis. We'll pinpoint the regions which are hardest hit with scarcity and communities in dire need, mapping their challenges in a way where we need to be able to give them sustainable solutions. 

.. Crafting a solution, Donate Water .. .. Goes beyond mapping the problem. It's about arriving at a lasting solution at the community level, because the data that are being gathered at the community level gives us the reality of things that are happening on ground. It showcased the exact trend that are being experienced by people on a daily basis, as far as the effect of climate change on natural resources, water, in this case, uh, is being, uh,  as the case is. 

And so, the data  that are being mapped will be used to craft solutions that will change lives. And as we venture into the story, you will see also the power of technology collaboration and unwavering determination in regions where water dry up and women embark on  an arduous journey in search of water.

With data driven decisions, these areas can be targeted for transformation and then access to clean water and sanitation facilities can be improved. And also, we are about a holistic approach in terms of adding education to these initiatives in order to Improve people's knowledge on water hygiene and conservation as a crucial part of sustainability.

With each drop of water, we can empower and progress the SDG goals and reduce climate, climate crisis. Thank you so much. 